Skip to content
Open sidebar

ChatGPT
You said:
After completion of data pull what we do in preprocess 
ChatGPT said:
After completing a data pull, the preprocessing step is crucial to prepare the data for analysis or model development. Here's what typically happens during preprocessing:

✅ 1. Data Inspection / Initial Exploration
Check the shape and size of the dataset.

View data types and column names.

Spot anomalies, outliers, and missing values.

df.info()
df.describe()
df.head()
✅ 2. Handling Missing Values
Drop or impute missing values.

Drop: df.dropna()

Impute: df.fillna(value) or using statistical measures (mean, median, mode).

✅ 3. Data Type Conversion
Convert columns to appropriate types (e.g., datetime, int, category, etc.).

df['date_column'] = pd.to_datetime(df['date_column'])
df['category_column'] = df['category_column'].astype('category')
✅ 4. Data Cleaning
Remove duplicates: df.drop_duplicates()

Clean strings: strip whitespace, lowercase, remove special characters.

Standardize column names.

✅ 5. Filtering / Subsetting
Select relevant columns or rows based on business logic.

Remove unwanted or irrelevant data.

✅ 6. Feature Engineering
Create new columns (e.g., age from date of birth).

Encode categorical variables:

One-hot encoding (pd.get_dummies)

Label encoding

✅ 7. Outlier Detection & Treatment
Detect using statistical methods or visualization.

Decide whether to remove or cap outliers.

✅ 8. Scaling / Normalization
Required for algorithms sensitive to scale (e.g., SVM, KNN).

Min-Max Scaling, StandardScaler, etc.

✅ 9. Text Preprocessing (if applicable)
Tokenization, stemming, stopword removal for NLP tasks.

✅ 10. Save Preprocessed Data
Store cleaned dataset for downstream processes (e.g., to a .csv, database, or serialized object like .pkl).

If you're working in SageMaker or a similar platform, preprocessing can also involve:

Writing the preprocessing code as a pipeline step.

Saving the output to S3 for later use in training.

Let me know if you’d like an example script for a specific use case (e.g., tabular data, text data, etc.).




No file chosenNo file chosen
ChatGPT can make mistakes. Check important info. See Cookie Preferences.
